=head1 NAME

fence_vmware_esxi

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fence_vmware_esxi --ipaddr esxi.server [ --login root ] --passwd password --nodename vm_guest_name

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A Red Hat Cluster Suite fence agent for ESXi 4.1 and later.

This is required for ESXi servers that don't have a license (so don't support
power on/off events via the VMware SDK - and hence newer versions of the
fence_vmware agent) and also don't have a copy of the vmrun command installed
(which is used by older versions of the fence_vmware agent and isn't installed
on ESXi 4.1 and later).

Instead this program uses ssh to connect to the ESXi server, and then runs the
vim-cim program, which should be present on most (all?) ESXi versions.

=head1 PREREQUISITES

Tech support mode must have been configured on the ESXi servers as described here:
L<http://kb.vmware.com/selfservice/microsites/search.do?cmd=displayKC&externalId=1017910>

This program requries the L<Net::SSH::Expect> module. For Red Hat based systems
this module and it's dependencies can be downloaded from the L<EPEL project|http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL> in the packages:
  perl-Net-SSH-Expect
  perl-Expect
  perl-IO-Tty

If you wish to use a non-root user to connect to the ESXi server, this may be
possible using the instructions in L<this article|http://kb.vmware.com/selfservice/microsites/search.do?cmd=displayKC&externalId=1017628>, although this has not been tested by the author.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--action [ on | off | status ]>

Action to take on the VM specified in --nodename.

=item B<--nodename>

The name of the VM to perform the action on.

=item B<--ipaddr>

The hostname or IP address of the ESXi host that the VM is on.

=item B<--login>

Username for the ESXi server. Defaults to 'root'.

=item B<--passwd>

Password for the ESXi server.

=item B<--timeout>

Maximum length of time the program will run for. Defaults to 10 seconds.

=item B<--verbose>

Display the commands being run on the ESXi server.

=item B<--help>

Displays the command line syntax.

=item B<--man>

Display the man page.
 
=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

Documentation about the API this program respects can be found here:
L<https://fedorahosted.org/cluster/wiki/FenceAgentAPI>

L<Net::SSH::Expect>

L<fenced(8)> L<fence_tool(8)> L<cluster.conf(5)>

=head1 BUGS

You should probably just buy a license for ESXi and use the SDK based fence_vmware agent bundled with RHCS.

During testing, it was observed that sometimes this agent was not able to discover the VM and so couldn't fence the VM (I think this is a timeout issue with my usage of Net::SSH::Expect). This is not a problem, as whilst the initial fence operation might fail, the RHCS fencing will not give up and eventually it will work.

This is more of a ESXi bug, but whilst I'm here... If a (psuedo-)TTY is allocated, then the ESXi ssh server will eventually no longer be able to generate a pTTY for new ssh connections and the openssh client will report:
  PTY allocation request failed on channel 0

you will then have to reboot your ESXi server to regain normal operation (I don't know if there is a better solution). This agent avoids this by not requiring a pTTY.

The agent can't tell if login to the ESXi host is failing.

You can't configure the facility/level of the syslog messages.

=head1 AUTHOR

Jonathan Barber <jonathan.barber@gmail.com>

